she's so comfortable in our presence
she'll even take a nap right in front of
us in fact she's looking so relaxed it's
actually a little worrying well she
doesn't need to be concerned with us she
still does need to watch out for other
bears at least the Cubs are up in a tree
if she wants to avoid a close encounter
with another bear
she needs to literally sleep with one
eye open
[Music]
this is what I was worried about
this big male doesn't know the mother
bear is asleep on the other side of the
tree
[Music]
his sudden appearance startles her she
has no idea of his intentions she's very
upset by how close he got and reacts
with real aggression
[Music]
this is just the sort of encounter that
most mother bears try to avoid it was a
dangerous situation for her to get
herself into she's lucky the big male
didn't fight back he's so much bigger
than her that one swipe of his paw could
have injured or even killed her four
bears at this time of year the stakes
are high and the next morning brings a
stark reminder of just how high it's a
little male black bear he was most
likely killed in a fight with another
bear possibly the big male
competition for salmon can be fierce and
occasionally fatal the presence of this
dead bear appears to have really upset
the mother she needs the salmon but the
risk to her cubs is too high to stay out
on the creek right now
[Music]
you